# Lateral Static and Dynamic Response of Single Piles in Non-Homogenous Soils using a Standalone Two-Parameter Foundation Model
This repository contains code used for a thesis under the title *Lateral Static and Dynamic Response of Single Piles in Non-Homogenous Soils using a Standalone Two-Parameter Foundation Model*

## Abstract 
In the design and analysis of structures supported on piles, geotechnical engineers are required to formulate pile responses. Such a formulation involves the use of subgrade models that relate the interface forces to the displacement. The primary focus of this thesis is one such relatively new subgrade model, initially developed for shallow foundations, applied to laterally loaded piles. The model is a Kerr-equivalent two-parameter Pasternak-type subgrade. Furthermore, as with most pile applications, the variable natural of the soil along the pile depth is also taken into consideration. The goal of this thesis is to investigates the applicability of the aforementioned model for predicting the static and dynamic inertial response of a single pile embedded in non-homogenous soils represented by a power function. To this end, the model in question was initially calibrated by setting equivalences between the responses predicted and results from finite element analysis. Expressions for a calibrating factor left open in the model were developed as functions of relevant parameters. The results from the calibrated model were compared with the results from the finite element method and found to be comparable. Additionally, it was demonstrated that the critical slenderness ratio and critical relative stiffness can be approximated by threshold values form expressions developed for the calibration factor. Using the calibrated subgrade model the static response of the soil were also investigated. Expressions for the pile head flexibility coefficients and pile head stiffness terms were provided. The proposed expressions compared well with published results. In addtion, utilizing the unique characteristic of the model being studied, in that the shear interaction is explicitly accounted for, its effects on static pile response were also studied. In general, neglecting the shear term resulted in overestimation of the pile head displacement. Similarly, the use of a calibrated lower order Winkler-type model that implicitly accounts for shear interaction was investigated which by in large provided higher displacement profiles. The calibrated model was also used in predicting the dynamic inertial response of a laterally loaded pile in non-homogenous soil. An approximate energy method was used to arrive at the dynamic pile head stiffness and damping ratios. It was observed that the dynamic pile head stiffness can reasonably be approximated by the static pile head stiffness for low ranges of excitation frequencies commonly encountered in seismic events. Curve fit expressions are also provided for the pile head damping ratio. The effect of shear interaction was also investigated for the dynamic inertial case. As the analysis was confined to long flexible piles, very little effect was observed with the exception of piles in rocking oscillation. 
